CISC 3300 F24 
Homework 9 
1. What is SQL?
SQL (Structured Query Language) is a programming language for storing and processing information in a relational database. 
 What is MySQL? 
MySQL is an open source database management system that stores and manages data
What are relational databases? 
A relational database id information in tabular form that has rows and columns that represents different data attributes and the various relationships between the data values. 


2. What is normalization in SQL? 
Normalization in SQL IS the process of organizing data in a database. Normalization in SQL includes creating tables and establishing relationships between those tables that protect the data and to make the database more flexible by reducing inconsistent independency and redundancy in the database. 


3. What are primary and foreign keys? 
Primary keys are utilized to identify and index each row within a single table. Foreign keys are used to link rows in two different tables and that row can be added or updated in table_a if the value in its foreign key column exists. 


4. What are the three relationship types? 
The three relationship types in SQL are one to one, one to many, many to one. 


5. What is the difference between a left join and an inner join? 


The difference between left join and inner join is that inner join is used to retrieve only the rows in which there is a match in both tables on the join condition. Left join is used to retrieve all rows from the left table and the matched rows from the right table, with NULL values for non matching rows
6. Write statements to create: 
a. a new database in phpmyadmin called homework_9 
b. a library table, in the create statement include the following columns: i. id, which should be an integer, have space for 11 characters, not be nullable, and auto increment, set the id column as the primary key 
ii. name, which should be an varchar, have space for 80 characters, not be nullable, and auto increment 
c. a books table, in the create statement include the following columns: i. id, which should be an integer, have space for 11 characters, not be nullable, and auto increment, set the id column as the primary key 
ii. name, which should be an varchar, have space for 80 characters, not be nullable, and auto increment 
d. libraryBook table, in the create statement include the following columns: i. id, which should be an integer, have space for 11 characters, not be nullable, and auto increment, set the id column as the primary key 
ii. libraryID, which should be an integer, have space for 11 characters, not be nullable 
iii. bookID, which should be an integer, have space for 11 characters, not be nullable 
7. Write statements to: 
a. insert some data into the library and books tables 
b. when you have the ids of the created rows, create some rows in the libraryBook table 
c. Select a library by id = 1 
d. Select a book using the like keyword and % wildcards to search the name column if it contains a single word 
e. Select all books and order them alphabetically by name 
8. Write a query with a join to return the name of all books that belong to libraries 9. Write an update statement to update the name of one of the books 
10. Write a delete statement to delete one of the books.